Update reference docs for interfaces and interface instances (#14743)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/daml/reference/interfaces.rst

  This feature is under active development and not officially supported in
  production environments.

> In Daml, an interface defines an abstract type together with a behavior specified by its view type, method signatures, and choices. For a template to be considered an instance of this interface, there must be a corresponding ``interface instance`` clause where all the methods of the interface (including the special ``view`` method) are implemented. This allows decoupling such behavior from its implementation, so other developers can write applications in terms of the interface instead of the concrete template.

Reviewer: In general, I would recommend preserving the existing line breaks to make reviewing easier.

Author: fair point, I'll reflow these in a new commit

> In Daml, an interface defines an abstract type together with a behavior specified by its view type, method signatures, and choices. For a template to be considered an instance of this interface, there must be a corresponding ``interface instance`` clause where all the methods of the interface (including the special ``view`` method) are implemented. This allows decoupling such behavior from its implementation, so other developers can write applications in terms of the interface instead of the concrete template.

Reviewer: I find the phrasing that a template can "be considered an instance of this interface" might be confusing, since it looks to me as it overloads the term "instance". What do you think about this?
```suggestion
In Daml, an interface defines an abstract type together with a behavior specified by its view type, method signatures, and choices. For a template to conform to this interface, there must be a corresponding ``interface instance`` clause where all the methods of the interface (including the special ``view`` method) are implemented. This allows decoupling such behavior from its implementation, so other developers can write applications in terms of the interface instead of the concrete template.
```

Author: thank you, "conform" is the perfect word

  This feature is under active development and not officially supported in
  production environments.

In Daml, an interface defines an abstract type together with a behavior
specified by its view type, method signatures, and choices. For a template to
conform to this interface, there must be a corresponding ``interface instance``

> clause where all the methods of the interface (including the special ``view``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
definition where all the methods of the interface (including the special ``view``
```

- It's preceded by the keyword ``interface`` and followed by the keyword ``where``.
- It must begin with a capital letter, like any other type name.

Implicit abstract type
----------------------

> - Whenever an interface is defined, an abstract type is defined with the same

Reviewer 2: i wonder if `opaque` might be clearer to avoid confusion with abstract classes which feel a bit different. Don't feel strongly about this.

Author: Hm I like "opaque" but I'll keep "abstract" for consistency with the introduction "In Daml, an interface defines an abstract type…", because "opaque" doesn't quite work there

   :end-before: -- INTERFACE_METHODS_END

- An interface may define any number of methods.

> - Methods are in scope as functions at the top level and in interface choices.

Reviewer 2: this sounds a bit confusing, how about something like "methods define top-level definitions". The scoping rules are the same as for any other top-level def.

Author: Thank you, I'll rephrase

  These functions always take an unstated first argument corresponding to a

>   contract of a template type that is an ``interface instance`` of the

Reviewer 2: it’s not a contract, it’s the interface value/argument/payload.

Reviewer 2: and slightly confusingly in the definition it’s the type of the template, when you call it it’s the type of the interface. probably worth pointing tha tout somewhere.

Author: I'll split this into two bullet points

   :start-after: -- INTERFACE_VIEWTYPE_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- INTERFACE_VIEWTYPE_END

> - All interface instances must implement a special ``view`` method which returns a value of the type declared by ``viewtype``.

Reviewer: Is there some change here that I'm missing?

Author: also replaced `implementing templates` with `interface instances`

   :start-after: -- INTERFACE_CHOICES_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- INTERFACE_CHOICES_END

> - Interface choices work in a very similar way to template choices. Any contract of a template type that is an ``interface instance`` of the interface will grant the choice to the controlling party.

Reviewer: I get the point of the "is a" relationship, but I think it's worth considering the idea of giving more emphasis to the "has a" relationship, given that these might also be defined retroactively. What do you think about this?
```suggestion
- Interface choices work in a very similar way to template choices. Any contract of a template type for which an interface instance exists, will grant the choice to the controlling party.
```

Author: thank you, I think it works much better with "has a" language

     :start-after: -- INTERFACE_TRANSITIVE_REQUIRES_CORRECT_BEGIN
     :end-before: -- INTERFACE_TRANSITIVE_REQUIRES_CORRECT_END

> - For a template ``T`` to be a valid ``interface instance`` of an interface

Reviewer 2: `requires` is not a thing at the moment. we disabled that in lf 1.15.

Author: fair, though I don't want to just delete this section. I'll move it to the bottom and add a `.. warning::` in a follow up PR

- To make a template an instance of an interface, an ``interface instance`` clause must be defined in either the template declaration or the interface declaration.
- Either the template or the interface of the clause must match the enclosing declaration. In other words, a template ``T`` declaration can only contain ``interface instance`` clauses where the template is ``T``, and an interface ``I`` declaration can only contain ``interface instance`` clauses where the interface is ``I``.
- The rules for an ``interface instance`` clause are the same whether the enclosing declaration is a template or an interface.
- The clause must start with the keywords ``interface instance``, followed by the name of the interface, then the keyword ``for`` and the name of the template, and finally the keyword ``where``, which introduces a block where **all** the methods of the interface must be implemented.
- Within the clause, there's an implicit local binding ``this`` referring to a contract of the template type. The template parameters of this contract are also in scope.
- The special ``view`` method must be implemented with the same return type as the interface's view type.

> - Method implementations can be defined using the same syntax as for top level functions, including pattern matches and guards (e.g. ``method3``).

Reviewer: I think it would make sense to specify the scope and purpose of defining an interface instance on the interface itself and introduce the term "retroactive" to establish shared terminology with the readers. To the best of my understanding there's nothing preventing some to define a non-retroactive instance on the interface, but that's probably more of a reason to give guidance on how to follow the intent of the feature.

Author: > I think it would make sense to specify the scope and purpose of defining an interface instance on the interface itself and introduce the term "retroactive" to establish shared terminology with the readers. 

That's a good point. I avoided this because I'm not sure what's the best way to introduce it. It would also demand an explanation of the security implications. I'll try to write something and ping you again, if that's okay.

> To the best of my understanding there's nothing preventing some to define a non-retroactive instance on the interface, 

Right, that could only happen if the template and the interface are in the same module, …

> but that's probably more of a reason to give guidance on how to follow the intent of the feature.

… and then we should encourage having the instance on the template.

  specified as the ``viewtype`` in the interface declaration.

``interface instance`` clause in the interface
----------------------------------------------

.. literalinclude:: ../code-snippets-dev/Interfaces.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- INTERFACE_INSTANCE_IN_INTERFACE_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- INTERFACE_INSTANCE_IN_INTERFACE_END

- To make an *existing* template an instance of a new interface, the
  ``interface instance`` clause must be defined in the *interface* declaration.
- In this case, the *interface* of the clause must match the enclosing
  declaration. In other words, an interface ``I`` declaration can only contain
  ``interface instance`` clauses where the interface is ``I``.
- All other rules for ``interface instance`` clauses are the same whether the
  enclosing declaration is a template or an interface. In particular, the
  implicit local binding ``this`` always has the type of the *template*'s
  record.

Empty ``interface instance`` clause
-----------------------------------

.. literalinclude:: ../code-snippets-dev/Interfaces.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- EMPTY_INTERFACE_INSTANCE_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- EMPTY_INTERFACE_INSTANCE_END

> - If the interface has no methods, the interface instance only needs to

Reviewer 2: i'd put that above the code block

   :end-before: -- INTERFACE_INSTANCE_IN_TEMPLATE_END

- To make a template an instance of an existing interface, an
  ``interface instance`` clause must be defined in the template declaration.
- The template of the clause must match the enclosing declaration. In other
  words, a template ``T`` declaration can only contain ``interface instance``
  clauses where the template is ``T``.
- The clause must start with the keywords ``interface instance``, followed by
  the name of the interface, then the keyword ``for`` and the name of the
  template, and finally the keyword ``where``, which introduces a block where
  **all** the methods of the interface must be implemented.
- Within the clause, there's an implicit local binding ``this`` referring to the
  current contract, which has the type of the template's data record. The
  template parameters of this contract are also in scope.
- The special ``view`` method must be implemented with the same return type as
  the interface's view type.
- Method implementations can be defined using the same syntax as for top level
  functions, including pattern matches and guards (e.g. ``method3``).

> ``Interface Instance`` clause in the interface

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``interface instance`` clause in the interface
```

Author: thanks!

  template parameters of this contract are also in scope.
- The special ``view`` method must be implemented with the same return type as
  the interface's view type.
- Method implementations can be defined using the same syntax as for top level
  functions, including pattern matches and guards (e.g. ``method3``).

``Interface Instance`` clause in the interface
----------------------------------------------

.. literalinclude:: ../code-snippets-dev/Interfaces.daml
   :language: daml
   :start-after: -- INTERFACE_INSTANCE_IN_INTERFACE_BEGIN
   :end-before: -- INTERFACE_INSTANCE_IN_INTERFACE_END

- To make an *existing* template an instance of a new interface, the
  ``interface instance`` clause must be defined in the *interface* declaration.
- In this case, the *interface* of the clause must match the enclosing
  declaration. In other words, an interface ``I`` declaration can only contain
  ``interface instance`` clauses where the interface is ``I``.
- All other rules for ``interface instance`` clauses are the same whether the
  enclosing declaration is a template or an interface. In particular, the
  implicit local binding ``this`` always has the type of the *template*'s

>   record.

Reviewer 3: I think this is great. I'll repeat here some of what I said during our 1-1 conversation:

I don't hate the "retroactive" terminology, but I think it may pose more questions/confusion than it answers. I think wordy English prose referring to new interfaces defined for old/existing templates (and vice versa) is quite illuminating.

Personally I would avoid discussing purpose/intent too much in this reference doc, where I think the focus should be on syntax and meaning.

And while a little bit of "purpose/intent" might be unavoidable, I think you are right to be wary of straying into "justification" (I.e regarding security implications)
